Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning in the period sartorial we found out what can
volitional neural networks are all about.
And today we're going to dive into step one convolution.
So this is the kind of evolution of function that we try to stay away from mathematics and keep things
intuitive.
But I couldn't help but share this formula for you because it is so simple a convolution is basically
a combined integration of two functions.
And it shows you how one function modifies the other or modifies the shape of the other and if you've
done any signal processing or electrical engineering or a profession where signal processing is required
you would have inevitably come across a coalition function.
It is quite popular.
Now once again we're going to keep the mathematics light or keep them separate.
And if you'd like to get into the math behind the conventional Neural Networks a great additional read
is introduction to convolution all neural networks by Janson Wu who is a professor at the Nanjing University
in China.
This paper was published literally days ago like five or six days ago and it is oriented specifically
at people who are starting out at beginners who are getting to know conventional neural networks.
So the mathematics there should be accessible actually emailed.
Professor Francine Wu and yeah he said his whole goal is to make break complex things down so that people
who are new to this field can understand.
And also he mentioned that he's got some materials available on his home page so if you in your URL
if you just remove the last two parts and you just go to like Slash WJ X to that part that's his home
page and you'll be able to find more additional tutorials and materials which haven't been published
as papers.
But he uses them in his tutorial so you might find those useful so browse around there if you'd like
to get an introduction into the mathematics behind conditional neural networks and kind of build a solid
base around that area.
But we're going to move on and we're going to talk about the convolution.
So what is the conclusion in intuitive terms here on the left.
We've got an input image as we discussed that's how we're going to look at images just ones as areas
to simplify things and you can see the smiley face there.
There we've got a feature detector so feature detectors a three by three matrix.
Does it have to be three by three.
No it doesn't.
Alex Nat I think uses 7 by 7.
Now then some other one of those other famous ones uses like five by five feature detectors.
They can be different but usually you'll see that there are three by three and there are no reasons
to make them three by three.
So we're going to stick to the conventional way having a three by three feature detector.
Also the feature detector is called these are important terms because you might come across them.
There are many different terms for the feature detector.
But the most common ones are feature detector or you might hear it being called Colonel or you might
hear it being called filter.
So in this course we're gonna be using either filter or a feature detector interchangeably but just
bear in mind that it has those names and a conclusion operation is signified by an X in a circle just
as you saw in the formulas before.
And here what happens is on an intuitive level or just to think of it in terms of what is actually happening
in the background rather than the mathematics.
Well you take this feature detector or filter and you put it on your image like you see on the left.
So you cover the for instance in this case the top left corner the nine pixels in the top left corner
and you basically multiply each value by each value so respective value.
So the top 0 by the top left grow value by the top left value then basically it's position number one
one by a position number one one position by number or 0 1 0 1 0 2 by 0 2 and so on.
So just its element Y is the multiplication of these matrices and then you add up the results so in
this case nothing matches up so Oh it's always either a 0 by 0 0 by 1.
So the result is zero.
Here you can see that one of them matched up the one on the left matched up.
And therefore we've got a one here and nothing matched up nothing matched up nothing matched up.
Then we move on to the next throw or so and the step at which we're moving this whole filter is called
the stride.
So here we have a stride of one pixel.
So here you can see again something matched up the bottom right corner matched up again stride.
What a bottom one in the middle of matched up here top right on match up then nothing measure the straight
is one you can change the stride you can make it 1 2 you can get 3 whatever you like.
The eventually the one that works well is usually at two.
So that's what people stick to and we'll we'll talk about what the stride is towards the end of this
material.
So here we've got.
We're matching up so we just keep our eye here you can see we've got a two because two of them matched
up and so on and so on so on.
There we go there's another one that matched up there we go and they were done.
So what's what have we created right.
A couple of important things here.
The image on the right is called a feature map also has several terms.
It also can be called sometimes it can bold feature.
So when you apply convolution operation operator to something it doesn't become convoluted it becomes
involved.
And it has a sometimes I like I think to myself in the wrong way but it's the correct term is involved.
It's a kind of old feature or it can also be called the activation map.
But we're going to be calling it a feature map in this course.
So it can be called any one of those things.
And what have we done here.
Well as you can see we've reduced the size of the image.
That's number one and that's the important thing I wanted to mention about your input image and the
feature detect and the stride right.
If you have a stride of one you can see the image reduced a bit.
But if you have a strategy to the image is going to reduce more.
So the feature feature up is going to be even smaller.
And that's an very important function of the feature detector of this whole convolution step is to make
the image smaller because that'll be it'll be easier probably to process it and it'll be just faster.
It will.
And you'll be just faster because imagine like here we've got a what a seven by seven image.
But imagine if you have a proper photo right.
Or you have like a 256 by 256 pixel image.
That's that's a huge number of pics they turn a 56 squared nor likely.
Let's say you have a 300 by 300 pixels.
So.
So we don't get confused with the RG B 256 let's just say we have a 300 by 300 image in terms of size
in pixels.
Then you have three hundred squared number of pixels that's a huge number and therefore a feature detectors
will originally reduce the size of the image and therefore straight off to is actually beneficial.
But then the question is do we lose information.
Are we losing information when we're applying the feature detector.
Well some information we are losing of course because we have less values and of resulting matrix.
But at the same time the purpose of the feature detector is to detect certain features certain parts
of the image that are integral.
And so for instance if you think about it this way like the feature detector has a certain pattern on
it the highest number in your feature map is when that pattern matches up in fact the highest number
you can get is in an now simplified example is when the feature is that a match is exactly and you can
see if that number four we have in our feature map that's exactly.
So if you look over here that's exactly where this feature detector because there's only four ones in
it matched perfectly so you can see this this part over here.
So the feature was detected here and as we discussed at the very start of this section that it features
is how we see things is how we recognize things.
We don't look at every single pixel so to speak in what we see on an image or in real life.
We don't look at every single pick we look at features.
We look at the the nose the hat the the feather the the eyes under or the little black marks under the
cheetah's eyes to distinguish should be between a cheetah and a leopard or the shape of the train.
We want to distinguish between a bullet train and normal train and so on so we don't look at everything
we look at features and that's what we are preserving and that's what the feature map helps us preserve.
Actually that's what it allows us to bring forward and and get rid of all of the unnecessary things
that even as humans we don't processes so much information going into your eyes at any given time like
gigabytes of information.
If you look at every single dot if not terabytes of information going into eyes per second and still
we're able to process that because we get rid of what what is unnecessary we only focus on the important
features features that are important to us.
And that is exactly what the feature map does.
So now moving on this is our input image and you we create a feature map.
So the front one let's say the front one is the one we just created.
But then how come there's many of them.
But we create multiple feature maps because we use different filters.
Right.
And that's another way that we preserve lots of information.
So we don't just have one feature map we look for certain features and then or basically the network
decides through its training and this is something we'll discuss towards the end of the section through
its training it decides which features are important for certain types or certain categories and it
looks for them and therefore we'll have different filters and we'll talk about filters just now but
basically it'll apply these filters so to get this feature map it applied a filter like the one we saw
but then to get this feature map but apply a different filter to get this feature remember apply a different
filter and so on and so basically it just creates these feature maps and actually that's why personally
I think the term feature detector is better than filters so remember over here we have this filter which
we also can call a feature detector.
Well actually the word feature detector I think is better suited.
And the reason for that is that's what the purposes.
Right.
We don't want to just we don't want just filter out our image.
But even though that's the whole that's the same.
Same just a question of terminology.
But basically we want to detect features all right in this and this layer we're going to our in this
feature map.
We've detected where certain features are in the image in this feature map.
We've detected where certain other features are where a certain specific feature is look at this feature
map of take it where a certain other feature is located on the image.
So that's that's what we are doing.
And let's have a look at a couple of examples.
So here we're using and this is from gimp dot org.
Their documentation for it's a free like kind of tool like paint and you can use it to adjust your images
or work with your images but basically they have some valuable examples in their documentation and here
they have a picture of the Taj Mahal and you can choose which filter you want to apply.
So if you download this program and you upload a photo into it and then you can actually start a convolution
matrix and apply a filter then you will see that these things these English matrices actually applied
in image processing and design and so on.
So let's have a look at what we get what we get.
So.
So if we apply this filter five in the middle minus one minus one minus one minus one you can see that
it sharpens that image and.
Yeah.
So this is it's quite intuitive if you think of it.
So five is the pixel the main pixel like in the middle of the of the filter or the feature detector
and then minus one minus one minus one just so you're kind of like reduces the pixels around it the
inner in an intuitive sense then blur.
So basically takes C equal significant gives equal significance to all of the pixels around the one
in the center and therefore it combines them together and you get a blur edge enhance.
So here you can see that's minus one and one and then you get zeros right so you did delete to remove
the pixels around the main one in the middle and you only keep this one at a minus one.
And it gives you an edge.
Now this was a bit harder to understand how it works.
Like probably harder just to think of it intuitively.
Edge detect.
Right so this one probably makes more sense right you take the middle one.
You reduce the middle one the probably like the strength of the middle pixel and then you look for the
ones you look for these ones you see increase the strength of the ones around them.
So you have the ones there.
Yeah.
So that's that gives you like an edge Dex and you can see which you get there and boss another one.
So the key here is that it's as symmetrical and you can see that image becomes asymmetrical as well
so you get like that kind of feeling that it's standing out towards you.
And that's what you get when you have like minuses here and plus here.
Again this is very this is getting a bit technical now but at least we can get some kind of intuitive
understand lizards go quickly through them again.
So there is sharpen there's blur there is edge enhance there's edge detect there's embossed as low as
you can see these are great examples of the same image but we're getting feature maps so we use different
feature detectors to get different feature maps of the same image and therefore now we have lots of
the lots of versions of this image where in each one we've tried to detect certain things in these terms
they're not applicable to us they're being said like embossed is probably not applicable to us in terms
of convolution or neural networks but edge detect that's important we want to detect the edges edge
enhance probably not blur sharpened so certain things like edge it takes probably the most important
one for our type of work and in terms of understanding computers they will decide for themselves are
neural network will decide for itself what's important what's not and it probably won't be even recognizable
to the human eye you won't be able to understand what those features mean but the computer will decide
and that's the beauty that of neural networks that they can process so many different things and understand
without even having that intuition without having that explanation why they will understand which features
are important to them whether we have a name for them or not that that's a whole that's an irrelevant
question for their artificial neural network and my first one here's a image of Geoffrey Hinton Geoffrey
Hinton passed through one of these filters alright right so that brings us to the end of the day tutorial
I hope you enjoyed learning about convolution the key takeaway is that evolution the matter the primary
purpose and we can evolution is to find features in your image using the feature detector put them into
a feature map and by having them in a future map it still preserves the spatial relationships between
pixels which is very important for us to know because if they're completely jumbled up then we've we've
lost the pattern and at the same time it is important to understand that most of the time the features
a neural network will detect and use to recognize certain images and classes will mean nothing to humans
but nevertheless they work and that's what convolution is and I look forward to seeing you next eternal
until then enjoy deep learning.